Introduction
In this hands-on lab, we will create two S3 buckets and verify public vs. non-public access to the buckets. We will also enable and validate versioning based on uploaded objects.

Solution
Log in to the AWS Management Console using the provided credentials, and make sure you are in the us-east-1 region.

Download the files needed for the lab here: https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/S3BucketsLabFiles/.

To upload the cat2.jpg file when you're testing versioning, you will need to rename it to cat1.jpg to achieve the same results as the hands-on lab video.

Create a Public and Private Amazon S3 Bucket
Create a Public Bucket
Navigate to S3.
Click Create bucket.
Set the following values:
Bucket name: Enter acg-testlab-public-<random>, where <random> is a random string of characters to make the bucket name globally unique (e.g., acg-testlab-4324yr-public).
Region: Select US East (N. Virginia) us-east-1.
Object Ownership: Select ACLs enabled and Bucket owner preferred.
In the Block Public Access settings for this bucket section, uncheck the box for Block all public access.
Check the box stating I acknowledge that the current settings might result in this bucket and the objects within becoming public to confirm that we understand the bucket is going to be public
Leave the rest of the settings as their defaults.
Click Create bucket.
Create a Private Bucket
On the Buckets screen, click Create bucket.
Set the following values:
Bucket name: Enter acg-testlab-private-<random>, where <random> is a random string of characters to make the bucket name globally unique (you can use the same string from your public bucket).
Region: Select US East (N. Virginia) us-east-1.
Leave the rest of the settings as their defaults.
Click Create bucket.
Upload a File in the Private Bucket
Select the private bucket name to open it.
In the Objects section, click Upload.
Click Add files.
Navigate to the files you downloaded for the lab, and upload the cat1.jpg image.
Leave the rest of the settings on the page as their defaults.
Click Upload.
After the file uploads successfully, click its name to view its properties.
Open the Object URL in a new browser tab. Since it's a private bucket, you'll see an error message.
Back on the cat1.jpg page, select the Object actions dropdown.
Note that the Make public using ACL option is grayed out, because the bucket is private and we set the ownership to not use ACLs.
Upload a File in the Public Bucket
Click Buckets in the link trail at the top.
Select the public bucket name to open it.
In the Objects section, click Upload.
Click Add files.
Navigate to the files you downloaded for the lab, and upload the cat1.jpg image.
Leave the rest of the settings on the page as their defaults.
Click Upload.
After the file uploads successfully, click its name to view its properties.
Open the Object URL in a new browser tab. You should receive an error message because although the bucket is public, the object is not.
Back on the cat1.jpg page, select Object actions > Make public using ACL.
Click Make public.
Open the Object URL in a new browser tab again. This time, the image should load.
Enable Versioning on the Public Bucket and Validate Access to Different Versions of Files with the Same Name
Enable Versioning
Back on the public bucket page, click the Properties tab.
In the Bucket Versioning section, click Edit.
Click Enable to enable bucket versioning.
Click Save changes.
Upload Another Image to Test Versioning
Click the Objects tab.
Click Upload, and then click Add files.
Rename cat2.jpg to cat1.jpg (this way, you'll upload a different image than the original cat1.jpg image).
Upload the newly renamed cat1.jpg image.
Click Upload.
After the file uploads successfully, click its name to view its properties.
Click the Versions tab. You should see there are two versions of the cat1.jpg file.
View the Image Versions
Select Object actions > Make public using ACL.
Click Make public.
Click the Properties tab.
Open the Object URL in a new browser tab. This time, you should see the new image.
Back on the cat1.jpg page, click the Versions tab.
Click the null object.
Open its Object URL in a new browser tab. You should see the original cat1.jpg image you uploaded.
Conclusion

