Introduction
AWS Glacier is a long-term archive storage service that provides lower-cost storage than other AWS storage options. When data has not been accessed for a certain period of time, it can be moved automatically between S3 storage classes using a lifecycle policy. In this lab, we will create a basic Amazon S3 lifecycle policy.

Solution
Log in to the AWS Management Console using the credentials provided on the lab instructions page. Make sure you're using the us-east-1 region.

Download the ccp-master folder to upload to the S3 bucket we create.

Create an S3 Bucket and Upload an Object
Navigate to S3.
Click Create bucket.
In Bucket name, enter a globally unique name.
Deselect Block all public access.
Click I acknowledge that the current settings might result in the bucket and the objects within becoming public.
Click Create bucket.
Click the bucket to open it and click Upload.
Click Add folder.
Select the ccp-master folder downloaded from GitHub.
Click Upload > Upload.
At the bottom of the page, click Upload.
Create a Lifecycle Policy
Return to the main page of the S3 bucket.
Select the Management tab.
Scroll to Lifecycle rules and click Create lifecycle rule.
In Lifecycle rule name, enter "s3-to-glacier-flexible-retrieval-rule".
Scroll to Filter type and in Prefix enter "pinehead".
In Lifecycle rule actions, click Transition current versions of objects between storage classes and Transition previous versions of objects between storage classes.
In Transition current versions of objects between storage classes, select GGlacier Flexible Retrieval (formerly Amazon Glacier) from the dropdown and set Days after object creation to "30".
Click I acknowledge that this lifecycle rule will increase the one-time lifecycle request cost if it transitions small objects.
In Transition previous versions of objects between storage classes, select Glacier Deep Archive from the dropdown and set Days after objects become noncurrent to "15".
Click I acknowledge that this lifecycle rule will increase the one-time lifecycle request cost if it transitions small objects.
Click Create rule.
Conclusion
